Matthew Knauff: Hi.
Richelle Direny: Hello, Matthew, how are you
Matthew Knauff: Okay, I didn't know if it was for sure if you if you really want me to come to that 10 so I just done it, just in case it
Richelle Direny: No i. So, of course, you're putting these at 10 so then when I noticed that you weren't showing. I was like that Matthew, I just gave him disappointment.
Richelle Direny: If he don't show and then right after I finish that thought I got the alert that you're here. Hello.
Richelle Direny: How are you doing,
Matthew Knauff: Oh, okay. I'm feeling a little bad again. I don't know what's wrong with me.
Richelle Direny: Did you go to the doctor did you cope with. I know they're doing um
Matthew Knauff: I don't know. I'm gonna have to
Richelle Direny: IT WHAT IT'S NOT ON WHAT DO YOU LIKE HAVE flu like symptoms like you're just have like a really bad flu or
Matthew Knauff: Yet, and just um Rural. Rural nauseated robot like
Richelle Direny: Okay, yeah.
Matthew Knauff: Bieber and everything, but that's kind of
Richelle Direny: Did you um
Richelle Direny: How long have you been feeling like
Matthew Knauff: It's been about a week or longer.
Richelle Direny: It's been longer because I know one of our sessions.
Richelle Direny: To cancel because you weren't feeling to
Richelle Direny: It and come to one group. I think because you weren't feeling all right.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, I'm gonna have to my state switch to be world like that.
Richelle Direny: really windy where you are.
Matthew Knauff: It is
Matthew Knauff: Is that they have
Richelle Direny: No, no, I just hear a lot of wind
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, it is windy today.
Richelle Direny: Hi, it's a it feels like it seems like it's a great outdoors, Ed.
Matthew Knauff: It is
Richelle Direny: So I'll kind of how has everything been going and have you been working or you're not working.
Matthew Knauff: No, I haven't been able to
Richelle Direny: Grow because of the did you get on temporarily laid off.
Matthew Knauff: No, I was just getting raised or back to work, actually. And then I got sick like this.
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay.
Richelle Direny: And you live alone right
Matthew Knauff: Know I live with my friends.
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay, well, yeah, I would. I know you have, we have group tomorrow that is Wednesday. So tomorrow, so you can, you know,
Matthew Knauff: Going to appointment with my counselor, but
Matthew Knauff: I'm willing to pay my counter
Matthew Knauff: Sorry about that. It was neighbor.
Richelle Direny: Okay, so we haven't gone over your own goals. So that's what we'll do today.
Richelle Direny: Today,
Richelle Direny: I know moving forward. Um, what they're they're starting to do now.
Richelle Direny: Is that if you like. Okay, so let's say you have an appointment and like, so we had the appointments, a day and you weren't able to make it and you sent me a message and I can reschedule it or what have you. That will be okay in
Richelle Direny: But like if I find that there's a whole lot of no shows or missed appointments, they're going to kind of read your script there. So they're making their kind of the rules of the program. There are somewhat
Richelle Direny: coming a little bit stricter with them.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: So just to make you aware that it's always important especially, you know, just let me know either send me a message call virtual clinics and just say, Hey, I won't be able to make it because of whatever the reason,
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, I will watch it and miss any after this
Matthew Knauff: After the last time. That's not like being at all.
Richelle Direny: No, I mean, like I said, it's no problem, just
Richelle Direny: Because I know you said that the the reminders are helpful.
Matthew Knauff: They are
Matthew Knauff: And I think a couple times. I don't know if I can go back and do them, but I just realized the other day that before groups. I hadn't been doing the
Matthew Knauff: Survey thing.
Richelle Direny: till tomorrow. Just tomorrow, Thursday, what time do you come to top 12 or six
Matthew Knauff: I'll probably come at 12 tomorrow.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, but I think you do them every seven days before the
Richelle Direny: Before the group. So just try to get
Matthew Knauff: Get it done tomorrow. Okay.
Matthew Knauff: Oh, I didn't last week and the week before it was just like before that.
Richelle Direny: Oh,
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I think I want to say it's every week.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, it is. It was
Matthew Knauff: The times before that I hadn't done the
Matthew Knauff: Paper that I'd done at once and I completely forgot about it like a couple of times and then
Matthew Knauff: They reminded me that like when the last time. So I didn't know if I should go back and do them for those weeks or what to do.
Richelle Direny: Alright so today I want to talk about your
Richelle Direny: You know, what is your treatment. We're going to go over like your treatment plans and goals like what is it that you would like to work on.
Matthew Knauff: Like when I get back to work about my stress management, what I need, like, the most
Matthew Knauff: Stuff with because I'm pretty good at my, you know,
Matthew Knauff: As far as my
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Matthew Knauff: Me. It's always an ongoing thing you know you some you should always work one
Richelle Direny: So, so when you say that you're you're good with your sobriety over. I mean, remember, and I think we've talked about this in our group before it's that
Richelle Direny: Addiction.
Richelle Direny: Is
Richelle Direny: The precursor to addiction, our
Richelle Direny: Inability to cope with whatever it is, anxiety, stress all they're all these of the precursors to when I'm if your stress level is beyond
Richelle Direny: What you're capable of handling, um, you lose all sense of control and power and you feel so overwhelmed. You need that sense of you, you need that pressure to be released.
Richelle Direny: And what ends up happening is that, though. You've been on this journey of sobriety for so long you've been able to manage. But then life just came actually like a ton of bricks and when it came into like a ton of
Matthew Knauff: Bricks what happened.
Richelle Direny: You find something to help you in that moment. It's kind of like you go, you got to cut you have severe pain.
Richelle Direny: You need that pain is something you've done everything and it's not working. And it's like, it's really just getting to you. So what do you do
Richelle Direny: You find the quickest of what you know, or someone introduced us and says, Hey, take this. This will help
Richelle Direny: And so it begins this journey, again, of being addicted to something, it may not necessarily be your addiction to if it was pain pills or if it was, whatever it was.
Richelle Direny: Now you've developed a new addiction to something else. You understand. So even though the most part, whatever your drug of choice was you have been sober from that for a while. It doesn't mean that I no longer
Richelle Direny: I'm still on this journey of recovery, because I'm no longer doing let's say heroin, whatever your drug of choice was now you're now.
Richelle Direny: Looking at one. Let's just say, or you're smoking in even though in some states marijuana maybe legal, but at the end of the day, anything becomes
Richelle Direny: That takes over your life and you're finding any means of what to get it, it becomes an addiction for you.
Richelle Direny: And it's something that you have lost control and now. So that's kind of how you have looked at it. Now this is a good one. You're saying that one of the things that you want to personally work on is finding effective ways to do with stress management and
Richelle Direny: It's looking at that.
Richelle Direny: Because if you go back to work. And depending on where you're working if the stressors are really, really high for you. What is going to happen.
Richelle Direny: It's going to tailspin in a downward spiral and part of so you're working
Richelle Direny: And
Richelle Direny: Let's say your manager is really just being really nasty your, your coworkers are being really nasty and you're thinking you're dealing with it. But the minute that you find out that you may lose your job if you don't
Richelle Direny: Meet their demands, or the job requirements. Um, that's not the part that's really overwhelming the part that's overwhelming is your sense of financial security been taken away from you and not having anything to replace that
Richelle Direny: And that's what
Richelle Direny: It is for you.
Richelle Direny: Then it's finding effective ways to cope with.
Richelle Direny: Anything that may come at you because it's all about your financial future being affected by it, it's not
Richelle Direny: Yes, this is going on at the job. But guess what, I have two other jobs if y'all want to echo fall I got two more things to fall back on. I'm okay, financially, but if this is my only thing
Then
Richelle Direny: I'm going to, I'm going to lose all sense of control, cuz I don't want now what to do. Okay, so, but those are just examples of in terms of when you look at your goals and what is it that whatever do you think
Richelle Direny: Is something that you've struggled with.
Richelle Direny: Or something that you personally know that are triggers to
Richelle Direny: A potential relapse. One of them, he said his stress for you, you identified work. What about work is a stress.
Matthew Knauff: It's
Matthew Knauff: Just when
Matthew Knauff: People start dying and stuff like that. I never have been able to handle that good or just
Matthew Knauff: Like it's never got
Matthew Knauff: It's never got like
Matthew Knauff: Routine to me or become like easier. I still have a lot of Gil and stuff associated with it and have a hard time
Matthew Knauff: You know, I always to me I it's like I failed that
Matthew Knauff: Person to person, and then
Matthew Knauff: When it comes along with sometimes happened to the family's there and stuff at the scene and it's then it's
Matthew Knauff: Good, yeah. Empty
Richelle Direny: Mm hmm.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and you said being at the scene and the families are there.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Matthew Knauff: My turn to
Matthew Knauff: Go in and
Matthew Knauff: Sorry about that.
Richelle Direny: No problem. What you had a dog next to you.
Richelle Direny: You had an animal next
Richelle Direny: To you.
Matthew Knauff: In neighbor.
Matthew Knauff: Sorry about that. Okay.
Matthew Knauff: Okay.
Richelle Direny: So for you is, um,
Richelle Direny: It's the it's the last of the patients that you're working with.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, I was. I can't am
Matthew Knauff: I always feel like if I can't get them back whatever I I've always had a hard time dealing with that and then that kind of
Matthew Knauff: Get I get real.
Matthew Knauff: Like emotional one step over it and it's just before kind of been a place where it's caused me to want to escape that like
Matthew Knauff: Especially if there's a lot of stuff like happens in a row. Like sometimes that will happen. And it's really bad like
Richelle Direny: Now for you.
Richelle Direny: So,
Richelle Direny: What in that moment.
Richelle Direny: You walk me through the your most recent um
Richelle Direny: Call that you've been on that. Maybe you've lost one of the patients or, you know, because you're saying that it's in the moment of from you can call to the scene to the
Matthew Knauff: Sport. It's from when it's over, like especially like in like an accordion caress, let's say, and I always like I always study like bargaining with them, even, like, you know. Come on, buddy. Come on, you just give me a little bit of something and I got yeah you know just
Matthew Knauff: Give me something to work with, you're not. We got this, you know,
Matthew Knauff: I and then you'll look sometimes you're looking to fame that will be following right behind you and you're just like, and then, like, if it's if it's the parent, they make this sale. That's like
Matthew Knauff: Any way to describe it is like someone so has broken open and pain is just, it's this
Matthew Knauff: Like it's the worst I've never anything like it's the most. It almost makes you sick when you it's like
Matthew Knauff: It's just like someone so is screaming Akin and it that's it's the worst.
Matthew Knauff: I hate that worse than anything that really, really gets me in a bad way is when that happens and it's normally have we heard it with a parent with something with when their kids if they've
Matthew Knauff: they've died or something they've come to the scene, you have to try to tell them and keep them back. The they'll just like fall to their knees and let this ungodly sound out and it's horrible.
Matthew Knauff: Awful.
Richelle Direny: In the moment like before they pass or just as their phones for the pain.
Matthew Knauff: Like a parent that with their kid, like if they come to the like they don't know something's happened and they've
Matthew Knauff: Come to the scene or whatever, and they when they find out that sound like it like a better mom makes it like when you
Matthew Knauff: It's it's it's it just makes it's the worst thing I've ever heard in my life, it's this, it's just this crap. Yeah, but it's more like just from their soul like this it's it's horrible. And then some of the stuff that
Matthew Knauff: You seek and it can just be like,
Matthew Knauff: But I mean, I've done that so long that I can deal with that. It's just I always get will buy guilt feelings and, you know, stuff like that. But I've
Richelle Direny: Seen, where do you what. So what I want you to take. So take the term and try your best to explain because I think maybe
Richelle Direny: Sometimes what I don't want to say sometimes maybe what I'm hearing is that
Richelle Direny: What is it in the depth of you like when you hear in because you're, you're saying that you've been doing it for so long.
Richelle Direny: Doesn't sound to me like you've gotten immune to it.
Richelle Direny: Because it
Richelle Direny: bothers you why. Yeah, because it still bothers you. But what is it about the sound because you're saying it's not identifying the sound with just the regular screen.
Richelle Direny: Or but it's it's like an internal for you. You're hearing. It's something like an internal thing.
Richelle Direny: Where, where that sound is coming from. It sounds very different from a scream or yell, whatever it is. So what about that to you think I just want you to think for I want you to tap into yourself and we're
Matthew Knauff: Going to explain this to is on like a row
Matthew Knauff: It's almost like that I
Matthew Knauff: Like almost like hurt for people like I it's more than what normal people do. It's like, I almost like
Matthew Knauff: Like if I see anyone. I can't even stand to watch a movie. It's not because something greason happens
Matthew Knauff: I can't stand it because something bad's happening to somebody and I'm like real caring about people and it's like it hurts me and I just and it's like immediately I just see that I just can't imagine what you know they're going through, and it just
Matthew Knauff: I mean sometimes I had patients died. I just wanna. I just want to hold them and tell him like, you know, it's one pick him up and hold you. I mean, hold them in because it just breaks my heart like
Matthew Knauff: Some stuff and you. I mean, you can't do that. But I, and I've gotten arguments before because I've had patients that overdosed and people that's
Matthew Knauff: On the call with me and started to say some really messed up stuff about them and I mean I've, I get really upset. They were that because I'm like they just
Matthew Knauff: Their addiction just cost them their life, they just paid their life for it and you're willing to talk. So you're gonna say something like that about somebody if they might be dead, but I'm like that's not
Matthew Knauff: Like that. So I don't know. I think it's almost I'm to hearing about stuff. And it's hard. I just can't leave it at work. Like, I'll go home and still be worrying about, you know,
Matthew Knauff: Patients and stuff. And I think I just need to figure out some way to
Matthew Knauff: Have a healthy, you know,
Matthew Knauff: Mindset or something about it.
Matthew Knauff: It's been I had been off because I had had a bad health problem with my lungs for a couple years, and then
Matthew Knauff: So I think that it's and what ended up happening was to my dad went into cardiac arrest or me and my mom and we live in a small town and we couldn't get help for like 45 minutes. And so that really
Matthew Knauff: Was bad when I couldn't say my dad, it really, really, really messed with me and I started eating a lot of windows because I had been prescribed him for years, but then I
Matthew Knauff: Become a problem and I had this psychiatry set told me where is when for treatment at the time that
Matthew Knauff: She thought I had PTSD and been through dazzle paint with the worst thing for it. And I thought she don't know what she's talking about. Well, it was because once I agreed to taper off of them.
Matthew Knauff: It's like I could, I finally was able to like have to deal with it. And when I did it was I had remembered it a way that it wouldn't happen. And I felt like I gave up on my dad, but then when I was able to actually set and make myself go through it. They have to deal with it.
Matthew Knauff: It took all this guilt away from me because I didn't
Matthew Knauff: Give up on him. I stopped because I knew that it was have been 45 minutes and doing CPR by myself, you know, your
Matthew Knauff: Efficiency goes down after three minutes. You want to change rescuers every two to three minutes.
Matthew Knauff: So by 45 minutes of just basic CPR. He wasn't want to, you know, his brain had been so damaged and he wasn't when they come back, but
Matthew Knauff: The way I had been dealing with it for a couple of years is that I had just gave up on him and how he could have done that and, you know, so when I done that. It's like, it made it so much better. I had to go through it because I was just taking then chose to not have to deal with the
Matthew Knauff: Think about it and just living in this pain. So that really
Matthew Knauff: Helps so and I've not worked since I've been off the benzo so I'm hoping maybe that it will be better that I don't have something to kind of, I have to go through it right then and then
Matthew Knauff: Deal with it. And it's over, because that's when I was in my drug use, that was always what I used for it. Any little thing went wrong, or was it perfect. I would just get high and not deal with it. I was the
Matthew Knauff: Master of not dealing with anything, if any, any little wrong thing. I would mix them up and get even higher. I didn't deal with anything.
Matthew Knauff: That was what was really, really hard, of getting used to. What's happened to experience stuff and not be able to take it away.
Matthew Knauff: That was rough. The first little bit, you know, not being able to just blast it out of my mind. So, but I was always the professional what you know not handling anything. I just wouldn't go with it if it was the least a little bit wrong and that was really, really bad, but
Matthew Knauff: I mean, I feel I'm I think I'm better now. So I'm nervous, but I'm excited to really mean to see how for them so mentally different now with my depression that everything being so gone and everything. I'm just
Matthew Knauff: You know,
Richelle Direny: But, but, you use the word just now. You said, perfect. Do you
Richelle Direny: Would you say that you're a perfectionist.
Matthew Knauff: When it comes to that I'm obsessive perfection is like I feel like there's and I took a psych test for nursing score need even center golden that that I can be hard to work with because
Matthew Knauff: To me there's only the perfect way. Is there any way you should be able to do it. And because I take a big responsibility that you know someone's trusted me
Matthew Knauff: With their life and to care for their families live and I take that really serious but it can be yes. I'm a perfectionist when it comes to it. I'll just say that
Matthew Knauff: Now,
Matthew Knauff: In my life. But with that, I definitely am
Richelle Direny: So your mind books home, there is this diagnosis code obsessive
Richelle Direny: Compulsive zone so OCD. This is which is the obsessive compulsive disorder.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, there's another one called obsessive compulsive personality disorder.
Richelle Direny: The, what do you think the difference in the two is what do you think the P. Why did they say it's a personality. What's the difference between the two.
Matthew Knauff: Probably the personality would be
Matthew Knauff: If he was like that and everything like that. You just expected everything to be
Matthew Knauff: Perfect, perfect, perfect. But if you
Matthew Knauff: If
Matthew Knauff: There would be just one thing. You know, like
Richelle Direny: Or maybe
Matthew Knauff: A couple things.
Richelle Direny: It's. Yes. And so for you. I can, it sounds as if like, so the reason that the difference between the two is that you both, both of them obsessed
Richelle Direny: You're upset. You're obsessing over things. There's the routine. I think the OCD is the it's the routine. They need this routine and they have to follow this strict routine.
Richelle Direny: But the p the personality, it's because you're a perfectionist, like everything has to be perfect in your mind, whatever you set out to do. It has to be perfect.
Richelle Direny: And so if it is not the epitome of perfection of how you see the perfection. It's almost like you're losing all powers, you feel like you have no control over anything because it's what your mind.
Richelle Direny: Is defining what perfection should look like. So for you, even when you talk about your dad. And when you're talking about. It's that thing your mind maybe your mind is saying that you're set out to save everyone that you come in contact with whether save them from
Richelle Direny: Us that
Matthew Knauff: That like so right on like
Richelle Direny: You want to save everyone but but this is the thing.
Richelle Direny: You were given the gift to help you weren't given the gift to save everyone
Matthew Knauff: There's a different my grandma told me one time. She's like, How dare you think that you're better than God that you
Matthew Knauff: She's like, when he
Richelle Direny: You didn't give you the gift to save everybody or even save it if he
Richelle Direny: He didn't give you the gift to give life. He gave you the gift to help people make those choices and to get on the path that they need to be on but it's still there.
Richelle Direny: And so for you where this OH CPD comes in. It's that
Richelle Direny: You're basically saying, God, I hear you but I don't hear you, because I still want to do this. This is where the personality piece comes in. You're not though you're not like verbalizing it but in your actions. That's what you're saying is, like, I hear you.
Richelle Direny: But
Richelle Direny: This is what I'm going to go back to I want to soul, though. Yes. You loved your dad. Yes. You wanted to help him but you even struggle with.
Richelle Direny: For him it was his time, but you didn't want to tell you're telling God no, that's not his time is time is what I say is time comes.
Richelle Direny: It's basically what without recognizing. That's what we're doing. And that's what I'm hearing. You're saying when it's all said and done,
Richelle Direny: The hardest pill to swallow is to understand people have free will, choice and what they do with their free will. Choice is hard for us to accept because now for someone who has this mind this in their mind they want to save everybody
Richelle Direny: It's like you're taking their will, away from them, you're telling them when it's time to go. And when it's time to I can only help you as much as I have the ability to do. So I have to be okay.
Richelle Direny: When it's time to let go. I have to be okay with that. And it's what I'm hearing you say is that you haven't gotten to that place where you're okay with that.
Matthew Knauff: I'm, I'm hoping that I have when I go back to work, because I handle stuff a lot better now. And I used to handle even stuff like well like even my aging like I did not handle that. Well, like I mean that was like the worst thing in the world to me was like
Matthew Knauff: But when I got real sick after my dad died, and I got will stick with my lungs and everything I gained so much weight and was so swollen and had to be on oxygen that I kind of had to just let a lot of stuff go because
Matthew Knauff: I was definitely very powerless. So in that time. There's three years that I was sick.
Matthew Knauff: Is when like the depression, kind of like when I start getting better. That's been my depression had like
Matthew Knauff: Went away for the first time in my life. So I don't know if maybe it's
Richelle Direny: Because I do you think
Richelle Direny: You're just went away. Why do you think in a moment. I have no idea.
Richelle Direny: What you just said in my whole life.
Richelle Direny: No, you just said it, but I don't think you recognize that sometimes we have
Matthew Knauff: Because I'm handling stuff better and
Matthew Knauff: Not obsessing over everything just if something happened just letting it
Matthew Knauff: And not there.
Richelle Direny: But you said
Richelle Direny: The word you said is that I recognize I am powerless over whatever the circumstances. And when you recognize that you brought it into awareness. I am powerless over a particular situation.
Richelle Direny: I am now aware of it. Now the other piece to it is did you accept that you are powerless over it.
Richelle Direny: And if the two came together. I now i'm aware and I have accepted it. Now that feeling of depression of sadness of hopelessness to that situation. If you're saying that that went away. It is because I became aware and I accepted it.
Richelle Direny: I'm powerless.
Richelle Direny: I'm powerless over this particular situation. There's nothing I can do.
Richelle Direny: If we hold on.
Richelle Direny: To this I have power over it, no matter how much
Richelle Direny: This higher power saying no you don't. That's where your depression takes it becomes. It takes over. You're getting sad and you're tearing yourself down. You're stressing yourself out. All of these things are now your health is being affected because you struggle.
Richelle Direny: Think of it as you're underwater.
Richelle Direny: You can't breathe on the water, can you
Matthew Knauff: Know,
Richelle Direny: But then I'm saying, Matthew, you have to if you want to get a breath. You got to come up
Richelle Direny: No, I could do this. I am going to figure out a way to do it. No, Matthew, you got to come up. You want to breathe. You got to come up above water I'm telling you.
Richelle Direny: Know I'm gonna. Okay, I'm just saying you're slowly dying. If you see you can you stay down there. The minute you you are now aware that you cannot breathe.
Richelle Direny: And if you have accepted that you were not created to breathe underwater you allow yourself to rise to the top to take in that breath. Now you're no longer
Richelle Direny: Depressed, you're no longer stress because you have accepted that I have no power and control with the ability to breathe underwater. And that's how you have to apply certain things that you're faced with in life.
Richelle Direny: You have power and control over some things you don't have power and control over everything. But you have to be able to identify what
Richelle Direny: It is and accepted.
Richelle Direny: You don't necessarily have to agree with it. You just have to just accept it and move on.
Matthew Knauff: But that makes that the perfect thing. Because when you said that underneath the water thing I could feel it, like, no, no. I can do this. I'll figure out some way and it's like, no, I can't. So
Richelle Direny: At some point when you start now you're getting ready to lose consciousness and that's what it is. When. Now you're getting ready to lose consciousness.
Richelle Direny: It's like okay, like, at what point are you going to let go, like, what point are you willing to accept that you'll you'll math. You were not created
Richelle Direny: To do this, you were not created to do this. And what happens is, so this is how the addiction and everything else, like the and and and and comes along.
Richelle Direny: Because you refuse to accept that this is not what you're created to do so, then therefore now this overwhelming feeling of sadness hopelessness helplessness everything that comes up on you.
Richelle Direny: Now you're starting to supplement and you're taking these things to help you to deal with this sadness or to help you to maintain this feeling of I don't want to let go. I don't want to go to that goal. But the minute you get to that place where
Richelle Direny: I am powerless. I'm powerless and I have to accept it. Now, like you said that depression, the need to take whatever your drug of choice was decreases.
Richelle Direny: The sadness starts to decrease all the other things that comes along with it decreases because you're now starting to teach yourself to accept the things you have no control over.
Matthew Knauff: And I feel more at peace to like get the perfect description of is, I feel at peace, almost like
Richelle Direny: You completely a piece
Richelle Direny: Because when you when you really think about depression and for you, your depression, based on what you're saying.
Richelle Direny: It's your depression is coming. It comes from
Richelle Direny: You want to help everyone you come in contact with
Richelle Direny: Can't
Matthew Knauff: Even when it's at my own detriment. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: You can. And so you end up your okay so it's kind of like
Richelle Direny: You want to
Richelle Direny: Help whoever it is that you want to help, and you can't. So now to cope with this idea of thinking. You can help everyone is that you turn to these drugs.
Richelle Direny: Now, that person is killing themselves, guess what you did, without recognizing what you did, did not join the bandwagon of your now harming your own self.
Matthew Knauff: Right. So then I definitely can't help someone if I'm
Matthew Knauff: Like my own self with it so
Richelle Direny: We will go over here, die, Matthew. We both love to hear that you're trying to help me when you over here, sleeping, all in the name of helping me
Richelle Direny: Helping me but you know
Richelle Direny: You need to help yourself. And that's the reality. I think once we come into awareness of it all. It's one thing to be aware of it.
Richelle Direny: But it's a whole nother to accept it.
Richelle Direny: It's a
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, and I always felt like that was being selfish.
Matthew Knauff: To have like someone would say love yourself to me. That was such a foreign thing that it was to me that was someone being selfish, because what I always thought. But I mean, I see now that that's not the
Richelle Direny: Sofa, so I know you said that you grew up in the church. So there's this biblical there's this partner says love others as you love yourself.
Richelle Direny: Now think about it, Matthew, how can you love me. If you don't even know how to love yourself.
Matthew Knauff: Right, and that's true right care.
Matthew Knauff: Trouble with me.
Richelle Direny: How are you going to love me. If you don't even know how to love yourself, but then you want me to love you in a way that you think you want to be loved. But the question is, do you even know how to love yourself how you want me to love you, where you don't even know how to love yourself.
Richelle Direny: So you got to look as you have to love yourself first, you have to think about yourself first, before and you have to know what you have control over and where your limits are. Because we all have a limit.
Richelle Direny: We all have a limit.
Richelle Direny: You know, and that's but it's, again, it goes back to being aware of it.
Richelle Direny: And then accepting it.
Richelle Direny: And that's where if you want to experience that.
Richelle Direny: On describe a little piece.
Richelle Direny: You have to first and learn what acceptance and looks like and be okay with accepting that I can't save everyone because I wasn't given the ability to save everybody. It's kind of like a doctor. Some doctors thing. Oh yeah, I could say what doctors to lose people don't make
Richelle Direny: Doctors, they lose. They try. Hey, a doctor tries to help this person with their issues, but then that person dies.
Richelle Direny: So it goes to show you, nobody on Earth, the ability to save everyone or to save anyone I'm given the ability. I'm giving the knowledge to help a person
Richelle Direny: But it's somebody, higher, higher power than me. That does the saving. It's not me. You are good. You understand what to say. Somebody higher that
Richelle Direny: That does the saving
Richelle Direny: But he gives you the ability and the gift to help the person on the way. But it's giving you the knowledge to be able to assist this person, but the saving comes from someone higher than you.
Richelle Direny: But if you accepting that knowledge.
Richelle Direny: And so
Richelle Direny: I think it's a learning to understand what your gift is
Richelle Direny: Your gift based on what I just heard, you said that your gift is the desire to help people and you have the heart, because this is this is everybody is not everybody don't like helping others.
Richelle Direny: Don't like open others, you don't have a heart for somebody just like you say somebody could look like you and another EMT is on the truck. You're both in the same profession.
Richelle Direny: You love what you do, because it speaks to your gift of wanting to serve others.
Richelle Direny: The other person is in that truck does the same job as you are doing. It's not their gift. They're just going through the motions, hence why they prefer probably say
Richelle Direny: Oh that's they fall down because they overdose and all. And they say, all these heartstrings, and it impacts you because your gift if serving others. And once you understand that gift.
Richelle Direny: Then you can learn the other piece of it is, I understand my gift. I'm aware of my ability, and the qualifications. I've been given.
Richelle Direny: I understand that I might have a limitation.
Richelle Direny: And I'm going to do as much as I can do, and I have to be okay with the outcome.
Richelle Direny: And I think that can help to start the journey.
Richelle Direny: Of
Richelle Direny: Understanding because I think that's one of in part of the steps, right, one of the steps is I'm
Matthew Knauff: Excited except the things that cannot
Matthew Knauff: Extend
Richelle Direny: Our list over you're powerless over something or forgot. Yeah, except the things that came up chain that
Matthew Knauff: Came to accept the things that came
Richelle Direny: To know the difference or something.
Matthew Knauff: For each didn't get the wisdom to know the difference.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, we both start going through it, but yes.
Richelle Direny: But it's understanding that light and I think
Richelle Direny: Of those steps. That's where you're stuck. And that's where your depression comes in.
Richelle Direny: Because
Richelle Direny: you struggle with accepting that line.
Richelle Direny: Except the things I cannot change.
Richelle Direny: What is it though and know the you said, what about the wisdom.
Matthew Knauff: With the new the difference
Richelle Direny: And the wisdom to
Matthew Knauff: Talk to it that we're missing, I cannot think of it for some reason.
Richelle Direny: To find it because I I have I have it here somewhere. But there is
Richelle Direny: But, but overall
Richelle Direny: Overall it's that's that's what it comes down to its I'm for you.
Richelle Direny: Have a hard time
Richelle Direny: In I'm
Richelle Direny: For you, you have a hard time in accepting the things and I think maybe that's if there was a possible diagnosis. I would say you have the OCD was the personality piece of it, it's because you're a perfectionist. You want everything to be perfect and nothing in life is perfect.
Richelle Direny: Think about him all, how can be. It's like you're a perfectionist, but are you perfect
Matthew Knauff: No.
Richelle Direny: Think about it as human beings. We're all asymmetrical.
Richelle Direny: Think about it. Each. What did they say we're a symmetrical. There's one side that's higher, there's one side of your body that's bigger than the other and
Richelle Direny: Just all of this in balancing in its you're not perfect. So then, if you think about your physical self and you're not via you are not perfect, even in your physique, and just how you are you're not perfect.
Richelle Direny: We have to redefine when we say that I'm a perfectionist, but nothing in life in the world is perfect. So I have to be okay.
Richelle Direny: If I do as much as I can and I can't go any further I asked to learn how to accept my abilities and my capabilities.
Matthew Knauff: And that that makes us as it goes a lot further to because I always had really bad self esteem issues and stuff because I always because I wasn't perfect in was it I always felt like I had to be this certain
Matthew Knauff: You know, and always tried to I think I was kind of raised that way to that like you
Matthew Knauff: I think it has a lot to do with it. And I always like tried to be this something that I wasn't in there, we still
Matthew Knauff: hated myself so bad because I was this what I thought I should be and how I should look and how I should, because
Matthew Knauff: I would get super like controlling everything like with myself and be like, you know, I couldn't even go out to club and dance and have fun, because that would be self obsessed. The whole time like
Matthew Knauff: In my proven wrong, you know, maybe like it and it was just, it would get really bad, like, because I would be so worried about if I wasn't going to look perfect to everyone, you know. So yeah, that that makes a lot of sense. You're the only person to ever hit on that, like,
Richelle Direny: It's it's it's absolutely and, you know, even the next time that we speak, it's, it's a little bit more about like how your self esteem and how everything else ties into that because you know the reality of life and I think
Richelle Direny: The way society as a whole has taught us how to, like, we look at the world and I think
Richelle Direny: We look at a model and for, for many years, you will always looked everybody asking, why do I have to, to be called pretty I'm like that.
Richelle Direny: Every man don't have a six pack. So why do I have to look at that individual and says that I defined my manhood and my masculinity based on who the way I talk aware who says that what book says that
Richelle Direny: And so because of the way we're taught to look upon beauty to look upon everything that we are told is right encoded
Richelle Direny: That's how self esteem, self image and everything. That's how like when you think about anorexia bulimia all these different eating disorders, all these different on like the body dysmorphia
Richelle Direny: And all of these come into play. How do you think it's coming to play, simply because of how we're taught to look at the outside world and we
Richelle Direny: Defined how we should look how we should act based on how all these other people are doing. Then when we cannot meet those standards. Then we become super hard on ourselves.
Richelle Direny: We define, like you said, you go to places you feel awkward and dancing, because I say, Boy, Matthew that Bruce can really get down, they could do this, they could do that.
Richelle Direny: And so now, because I did not meet that standard now I have an issue. I don't know how to dance. I don't know how to sing. I don't I don't simply because
Richelle Direny: I have said, or someone has said this is how it should be. By whose definition.
Matthew Knauff: Right and
Matthew Knauff: Even if someone gave you, people will be like, Oh, you can dance a good I would get offended by it. Like I would always assume that they were like, trying to get a dig at me like I couldn't accept that they was
Richelle Direny: I think you froze.
Richelle Direny: Are you still there.